# ADR 016: Backend restructuring - introducing ImportTask

## Date

2024-01-04

## Status

Active

## Context

The current backend lacks a standardized mechanism for importing projects and associating ADRs with projects. Additionally, there's a need to access historical project data efficiently. The architecture lacks in clarity and readability, whereas the new architecture 
gets rid of inconsistencies and allows more possibilities for our project. 

## Decision

To address these requirements, we propose the introduction of an ImportTask entity along with associated Service and Controller components. This will facilitate project retrieval, ADR association with projects, and enable historical project access.
The backend has therefore been extended by the following components: 

- **ImportTask:** This entity represents an import task (which is basically a representation of a project or repository). An importTask has a unique id, a boolean flag finished (which is set to true as soon as the ADRs of a project are imported and parsed successfully), a date, and the attributes repoOwner, repoName, directoryPath and branch. 
- **ImportTaskController:** The importTaskController extracts controller logic related to an importTask. It injects the importService. The importController has an endpoint (POST, because an action is happening) that parses ADRs, and an endpoint to get an importTask by Id.
- **ImportService:** The importService is mainly responsible for the parsing of the ADRs. This happens asynchronously, in a separate Thread. If, while parsing, another importTask is started, the Thread is interrupted, and starts parsing the ADRs from the new importTask. While the ADRs are parsed, the frontend uses polling to the backend to determine if the importing is finished. The service can also get an importTask by its id.
- **ImportTaskRepository** This repository currently finds an ImportTask by its id

## Consequences

Introducing ImportTask and its related components will lead to several outcomes:

- **Improved Data Organization:** Projects will be systematically retrieved and associated with ADRs for enhanced organization.
- **Efficient Historical Data Access::** Facilitates retrieval of historical projects based on defined parameters. For example, the architectur makes it possible to load the last analyzed project at the beginning, or to choose from the past analyzed project.
- **Enhanced Import Task Tracking:** Provides visibility into import task status and completion times. This also eliminates several bugs in the frontend that happened due to asynchronous parsing (multiple ADRs displayed or loaded several times)
- **Better readability:** By a clear separation of concerns and logic, every component does what it is supposed to do. The ADRService is clearer (reduced lines of code).
- **Extensibility** The backend can be extended by additional functionality easier than before

## Commit

`7d996a2`

## Artifacts

- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.entity.importTask.java](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/entity/ImportTask.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.controller.importController](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/Controller/ImportController.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.service.importService](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/service/ImportService.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.repository.ImportTaskRepository](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/repository/ImportTaskRepository.java)

## Relations

- extends [ADR 015](adr-015.md)
- is related to [ADR 017](adr-017.md)
