# ADR 018: Introducing Pagination

## Date

2023-12-25

## Status

Active

## Context

Introducing pagination will enhance the efficiency of data retrieval and improve system performance. 

## Decision

To address the issues related to handling large datasets (if a project has a lot of ADRs),  we propose the introduction of pagination across relevant API endpoints. This will involve implementing standard pagination techniques to limit and navigate through result sets.

- **Backend Changes:** The ADRRepository uses a Pageable object from Spring Boot, that contains metainfo about the pagination, such as pageOffset and pageCount. The DTO (data transfer object) ADRPageDTO is introduced. An ADR page has a data field (which is basically a List of ADRs), and a PaginationInfo field, containing relevant information about the page. The ADRPageDTO gets created and initalized in the ADRService. The ADRController has an endpoint to get an ADRPageDTO by pageOffset and limit. The limit is sent from the frontend. A backend search (with a query string to filter by title) has been introduced as well. 
- **Frontend Changes:** The frontend gets an ADRPage interface, including data (ADRs) and Pagination Info. The getAdrs method in the ADR service makes a get request to the backend, including the importTaskId, the query, the pageOffset and the limit in the query Parameters. The listview component uses the method from the service and displays a page. 

## Consequences

Introducing Pagination has the following outcome:

- **Improved Performance:** Pagination will mitigate performance issues associated with fetching large datasets by retrieving data in manageable chunks.
- **Enhanced User Experience:**  Clients can navigate through large datasets more efficiently, reducing load times and enhancing usability.
- **Scalability:** The system will be better equipped to handle increased data volumes without sacrificing performance.

## Commit

`7d996a2`

## Artifacts

- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.dto.ADRPageDTO.java](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/dto/ADRPageDTO.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.controller.ADRController](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/Controller/ADRController.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.service.ADRService](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/service/ADRService.java)
- [backend.ADR_Viewer.src.main.java.org.serviceEngineering.adrViewer.repository.ADRRepository](../../backend/ADR_Viewer/src/main/java/org/serviceEngineering/adrViewer/repository/ADRRepository.java)
- [frontend.adr-viewer-ui.src.app.services.adr.service](../../frontend/adr-viewer-ui/src/app/services/adr.service.ts)
- [frontend.adr-viewer-ui.src.app.interfaces.adrPage.ts](../../frontend/adr-viewer-ui/src/app/interfaces/adrPage.ts)
- [frontend.adr-viewer-ui.src.app.components.listview.listview.component.html](../../frontend/adr-viewer-ui/src/app/components/listview/listview.component.html)
- [frontend.adr-viewer-ui.src.app.components.listview.listview.component.css](../../frontend/adr-viewer-ui/src/app/components/listview/listview.component.css)
- [frontend.adr-viewer-ui.src.app.components.listview.listview.component.ts](../../frontend/adr-viewer-ui/src/app/components/listview/listview.component.ts)

## Relations

- depends on [ADR 016](adr-016.md)
- relates to [ADR 017](adr-017.md)
- relates to [ADR 019](adr-019.md)
